The text covers the evolution of computers.

The earliest iterations of computers were mechanical devices which assisted humans in performing calculations, such as the abacus and the Napier's bones. Later on, people began inventing machines which performed calculations all on their own, such as the Pascaline and the step reckoner.

In 1801, one of the first ever programmable devices was built, namely Jacquard's loom. It could produce fabrics with complex patterns, which were defined through punched cards.

One of the foremost scientists trying to realise the potential of computers in the 1800s was Charles Babbage. He spearheaded ambitious projects, such as the Difference Engine and the Analytical Engine. One of the people working with Babbage was countess Augusta Ada Byron, who is recognised as being the world's first programmer.

At the end of the 1800s came a landmark event in computing history: the tabulation of the 1890 U.S. census was greatly sped up by Herman Hollerith's Tabulating Machine, which recorded data using punched cards.

The 1930s and 1940s were an era of many firsts in computing history. In 1939 came the ABC, the first computer to encode information electrically. At the same time was finished the Z1, the first computer to use Boolean logic and floating-point arithmetic. The Mark 1 was renowned for being one of the largest computers of this time. In 1946 finally came the first general-purpose totally electronic computer, the ENIAC.

Two of the greatest advancements in the field of computing are the vacuum tube, which replaced the mechanical components used in previous computers, and the transistor, which superseded the vacuum tube. These inventions were critical to the rapid decrease in size and increase in processing power which has been observed in computer technology.

Today, computers have evolved to be omnipresent in our lives: from the PCs in our homes, to the smartphones in our pockets.
